---
title: From exit() to Code Execution
date: 2026-03-21 03:35:00 +0000
categories: [Blog]
tags: [pwnable]
math: true
mermaid: true
media_subpath: /assets/posts/2026-03-21-Code-Execution
image:
  path: tls.png
---

## Code Execution via exit()

### Overview

In this blog, we explore how code execution can be achieved during program termination by abusing the glibc exit() mechanism, specifically through TLS destructors.

All demonstrations use glibc 2.42, but the concept applies broadly to versions >= 2.23.

Although this technique is not new, this post presents my analysis and understanding of how it works in practice.

### Background

Before a program reaches `main`, several initialization steps are performed by the runtime.

Contrary to common assumption, `main` is not the first function executed. For dynamically linked binaries, execution begins at the ELF entry point (`_start`), which eventually transfers control to `__libc_start_main_impl`. This function is responsible for setting up the runtime environment before invoking `main`.

Internally, `__libc_start_main_impl` delegates the final call to `main` to `__libc_start_call_main`.

It is defined in [src](https://elixir.bootlin.com/glibc/glibc-2.42/source/sysdeps/generic/libc_start_call_main.h#L20)

```c
_Noreturn static __always_inline void
__libc_start_call_main (int (*main) (int, char **, char ** MAIN_AUXVEC_DECL),
                        int argc, char **argv MAIN_AUXVEC_DECL)
{
  exit (main (argc, argv, __environ MAIN_AUXVEC_PARAM));
}
```

One important detail is that when `main` returns, its return value is passed to `exit()`.

This analysis focuses on the implementation of `exit()`.

### Analysis

The referenced snippets can be found [here](https://elixir.bootlin.com/glibc/glibc-2.42/source). They can be cross-referenced by searching for the relevant symbols.

The `exit` function is a thin wrapper around `__run_exit_handlers`.

```c
void
exit (int status)
{
  __run_exit_handlers (status, &__exit_funcs, true, true);
}
libc_hidden_def (exit)
```

The function `__run_exit_handlers` takes four parameters:

```c
extern void __run_exit_handlers (int status,
				 struct exit_function_list **listp,
				 bool run_list_atexit, bool run_dtors)
  attribute_hidden __attribute__ ((__noreturn__));
```

`status`: the exit status passed to exit(), either from the return value of `main` or from a direct call to exit().

`listp`: a pointer to the list of registered exit handlers (exit_function_list), which stores functions registered via atexit, at_quick_exit, and on_exit.

`run_list_atexit`: a boolean that determines whether functions registered via atexit are executed.

`run_dtors`: a boolean that determines whether destructors are executed during program termination.